11.what is the diferrence between inner and outer join?

Ans:a join is used to compare and combine and return specific rows of data from two or more tables in a database.
     
       Inner join: inner join focuses on the commonality between two tables. When using an inner join, 
                   there must be at least some matching data between two or more tables are being compared.*(learn syntax and byheart) 
       Outer join:outer join returns a set of records (or rows) that include what an inner join would return but also 
                     includes other rows for which no corresponding match is found in the other table.(learn syntax and byheart)
               there are three types of outer joins 1.left 2. right 3.full outer joins. (explain a line each ,refer google)


12.what is the difference between JOIN and UNION?

Ans: joins : explain above answer anthakana akarledu.
     
      union:Unions combine data into new rows.  If two tables are unioned together, then the data from the first table is 
             in one set of rows and the data from the second table in another set.  The rows are in the same result.
       in union two table there are two types of requirements: 1.The number of columns must be the same for both select statements. 
                                                               2. The columns, in order, must be of the same data type.
                                         *(learn syntax and byheart)



13.what is UNION ,MINUS,INTERSECT?

Ans:UNION (as above answer)

     Intersect:a query also combines result set of two or more SELECT quries but retuns only COMMON rows amoung result sets.
      Each SELECT quries within the INTERSECt query must have the same number of columns in the result sets with similar data types.

        ***** Syntax : SELECT col1,col2, .... FROM <tablenames> INTERSECT SELECT col1,col2, .... FROM <tablenames>;(col ante columns)(must learn)
      
      minus:MINUS returns all rows in the first query that are not returned by the second query.
           Each SELECT quries within the MINUS query must have the same number of columns in the result sets with similar data types.

         **** Syntax : SELECT col1,col2, .... FROM <tablenames> UNION SELECT col1,col2, .... FROM <tablenames>;

 

14.How many types of SQL joins are there and what are they?
Ans:explain first answer in brief with syntax and example.

15. What is data structure?

Ans:Data Structure is a systematic way to organize data in order to use it efficiently.it  is a collection of 
    data items stored in memory, and a number of operations are provided by the software to manipulate that data structure.
     The basic types of data structures are:
           files
            lists
          arrays              } explain in each line. 
            records        
           trees
           tables
          this basic structures has many variations different operations to be performed on the data.
           opertations telsu kada add,delete avi



16.Differentiate file structure from storage structure.

Ans: When allocating memory to a variable constant etc it is stored in the ram, which gets deleted as soon as the scope of that 
function ends.This representation of allocating memory space in the ram is called storage structure.Whereas file structure
when we write anything in a file and store that file in you hard disk or any other external device 
which will be there until deleting it this representation of storing the file in secondary memory is called file structure


17. When is a binary search best applied?

Ans:binar search is best appied where to search a list when the elements are already in order or sorted.
          The list is searched starting in the middle. If that middle value is not the correct one, 
                    the lower or the upper half is searched in the same manner.


18. What is a linked list?
 
Ans:A linked list is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.A linked list is a dynamic data structure. 
The number of nodes in a list is not fixed and can grow and shrink on demand. Any application which has to deal with 
an unknown number of objects will need to use a linked list.
Types of Linked Lists

1. singly linked list:  data and a reference to the next node

2.doubly linked list : one to the next node and another to previous node. (example ivvu renditki)



19. How do you reference all the elements in a one-dimension array?

Ans:











20. In what areas do data structures applied?

Ans:Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System,Artificial intelligence.
  in real time arraging books , railway tickets etc (if possible time permits write how.)


21. What is LIFO?,,,,, 22. What is a queue?,,,23. What are binary trees?

Ans: you can explain this three kada make it sharp and explain with example* .


24. Which data structure is applied when dealing with a recursive function?

Ans:  Stack. Because of its LIFO (Last In First Out) property it remembers its caller function so it knows whom to return when the 
           function has to return. Recursion makes use of stack for storing the return addresses of the function calls.
         (e explanation chalu akku kavali ante eloborate it.)





                  ***** Note : syntax and examples are must and should task u have to do wherever required compulsary.
                                stars petta chudu avi compulsary.






















            

